comments on a static site (#3)
xenial-io/Xenial.Blog: src/content/_posts/2020-10-11-comment-system-on-static-sites-with-dotnet-core-and-github-actions.md

---
 layout: post 
 title: Comment system on static sites with dotnet core and Github actions
 tags: [dotnet, dotnetcore, asp, aspnet, .NET, git, github, "GHActions", "Jekyll", "Pretzel"]
 github: Xenial.Commentator
 author-github: xenial-io
 series: migrating-from-funnelweb-to-pretzel
---

When designing the new blog I finally decided to replace the comment system previously provided by [disqus](https://disqus.com/) with a much leaner one.

> I played around with several options like [staticman](https://staticman.net/), but I was never really convinced to adopt some of them. So I thought why not build my self one?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
I played around with several options like [staticman](https://staticman.net/), but I was never really convinced to adopt any of them. So I thought why not build one myself?
```

> Most of the tools use git issues, or some own database, or are using [jekyll's data file features](https://jekyllrb.com/docs/datafiles/) and commit directly to the repository.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Most of the tools use git issues, some proprietary database or are using [jekyll's data file features](https://jekyllrb.com/docs/datafiles/) and commit directly to the repository.  
```

> This is per se not an issue, but I like to have _data_ separated from the content in the repository.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This is not an issue per se, but I like to have _data_ separated from the content in the repository.
```

> I came across an library called [Appy.GitDb](https://github.com/YellowLineParking/Appy.GitDb) that uses git as a key value store. I think this is a perfect use case for this library so I thought I give it a try a shot and came up with a simple but I think powerful and robust solution.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
I came across a library called [Appy.GitDb](https://github.com/YellowLineParking/Appy.GitDb) that uses git as a key value store. I thought this was a perfect use case for this library, so I gave it a shot and came up with what I believe to be a simple, but also a powerful and robust solution.
```

<!--more-->

## Architecture

<pre><code>@@sequence napkin
note left of Blog.Repo
Clone Comments Repository
Prepares data directory
end note 
Blog.Repo->Blog.Repo: Build content of blog
Blog.Repo->Blog: Upload via FTP
Blog->Api: POST comment
Api->Blog: 200 OK
Api->Background Task: Queue comment
note left of Background Task
Lookup github avatar
Validate contents
end note
Comments.Repo->Background Task: Pull
Background Task->Background Task: Commit changes
Background Task->Comments.Repo: Push
Comments.Repo->Blog.Repo: Trigger build
</code></pre>

Let's talk a little bit about the moving components:

- [Blog.Repo]({{ site.site-repo }}): This is the github repo where the contents of this blog are stored

>   - There is an [Github Action]({{ site.site-repo }}/blob/main/.github/workflows/Xenial.Blog.yml) that builds the contents.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - There is a [Github Action]({{ site.site-repo }}/blob/main/.github/workflows/Xenial.Blog.yml) that builds the contents.  
```
